The Hammer Lost And Found.

The Frost Giants did not like the sunshine. They did not like to see the flowers. They did not like to hear the birds sing. They wanted to spoil everything.
The Frost Giants wanted to get into Asgard. But they did not know how. They were afraid of Thor and his hammer. They said, "If we can only get the hammer, we can get into Asgard."
They talked and planned all night. At last one Frost Giant said, "I know how we can get the hammer. I will dress in a bird suit. Then I will fly up to Thor's house and get the hammer."

The next night the Frost Giant flew into the house while Thor was asleep.
He took the hammer and flew away with it.
When Thor woke, he put out his hand to get the hammer. It was gone.
He said, "Loki, the hammer is gone. The Frost Giants have taken it. We must get it back."
Loki said, "I can get it back, if Freyja will let me have her falcon suit."
So he went to Freyja and said, "Will you let me have your falcon suit? I can get the hammer back if you will." Freyja said, "Yes, of course I will. If I had a gold suit you could have it. Any thing to get the hammer back."

Loki took the falcon suit and put it on. He flew over the city. All the people saw him flying. They said, "What a strange bird!" They did not know that it was Loki going for the hammer.
When Loki came to the city of the Frost Giants, he took off the falcon suit. He walked and walked until he came to Thrym's house. Thrym was the giant who took the hammer.
Thrym was sitting on the porch, making gold collars for his dogs.
When he saw Loki, he said, "What do you want?"
Loki said, "I have come for the hammer."
The old giant laughed and said, "You will never get that hammer. It is buried eight miles deep in the ground.
"But there is one way you can get it. I will give you the hammer if you get Freyja for my wife."

So Loki went back to Asgard.
Thor said, "Well, did you get the hammer?"
"No, but we can get it if Freyja will be Thrym's wife."
Then they went to Freyja's house. They said, "Put on your very best clothes and come with us. You must be Thrym's wife."
Freyja said, "Do you think I will be the Frost Giant's wife? I won't be his wife."
Thor said, "We can get the hammer back if you will."
But Freyja said, "No, I will not be his wife."
Loki said, "You will have to, if we get the hammer back."
Still Freyja said, "I will not go." And she was very angry. She shook so hard that she broke her necklace and it fell to the floor.

Then the gods said, "Thor, you must dress like Freyja. You will have to play you are the bride."
Thor said, "I won't do it. You will all laugh at me. I won't dress up like a girl."
They said, "Well, that is the only way we can get the hammer back."
Thor said, "I do not like to dress like a girl, but I will do it." Then they dressed Thor up like Freyja.
They put on Freyja's dress, necklace and vail, and braided his hair.
Loki said, "I will dress up too, and be your servant."
They got into Thor's goat wagon and went to the Giants' home.

When the Frost Giants saw them coming, they said, "Get ready, here comes the bride! We will sit down to the table as soon as they come."
The dinner was ready on time. The table was full of good things. All sat down.
The bride ate a whole ox and eight salmon before the others had a bite.
"She must be very hungry," the Frost Giants said.
"Yes," Loki said, "she was so glad to come. She hasn't eaten anything for eight days."
Then they brought in the mead.
The bride drank three barrels of mead.
"How thirsty she is!" said the Frost Giants.
Loki said, "Yes, she is very thirsty. She was so glad to come. She did not drink anything for eight days."

Old Thrym said, "I had every thing I wanted but Freyja. Now I have Freyja."
And Thrym went to kiss the bride. He lifted her vail, but her eyes shone like fire.
Thrym stepped back. He said, "What makes Freyja's eyes shine so?"
Loki said, "Oh, she was so glad to come. She did not sleep for eight nights."
Then Loki said, "It is time for the hammer. Go and get it and put it in the bride's lap."
As soon as the hammer was in his lap, Thor tore off the vail.
He took the hammer and whirled it around. Fire flew from it. The fire burned the house and the Frost Giants ran away.
So Thor got his hammer back.
